So we can see our table of data,
but we can't actually see where
these data points are on a map.
To do that we need to use the
tool XY Table to point.
To access this tool we need to
go into the Analysis tab at the
top and click on Tools.
Now on the right hand side we
have the Geoprocessing pane.
So in the search bar we can put
in XY table to point and it's
come up here at the top.
So once you have it, click on
this and it's going to bring up
the window to run this tool.
And to run this tool we need to
put in the parameters to be able
to do that.
So the first one is what is the
input table and that's going to
be our hippogriff sightings
table.
So an easy way to put this in is
just to click hold and drag it
from the contents into the top
section here under where it says
Input Table.
Going down we have the output
feature class and in this box we
can choose where we want to save
the output and what we want to
name it.
So we can click on the browse
icon here and then in the
browser we can choose where we
want to save it.
So I'm in the Hippogriff project
folder here and inside we have a
geodatabase that ArcGIS Pro has
automatically created for us
when we set up this project, and
this is a great place to store
all of our related data to this
project.
So let's go into the geodatabase
by clicking on it twice and then
we can name the output that
we're going to create.
So let's name it Hippogriff
Sightings and hit Save.
The next thing we need to look
at is the X field and the Y
field.
So in these boxes, you're going
to choose what columns within
your table represent the X field
and what represent the Y field.
So the X is always going to be
longitude and the Y is always
going to be latitude.
A good way to remember this is
that you go along the corridor
and then up the stairs.
So your X is longitude, your Y
is latitude, and these are the
fields that are going to allow
us to actually plot the data
onto our map going down.
We don't need a Z field because
we don't have any height data in
our table.
And then for coordinate system
our data was collected in the
coordinate system WGS 1984.
ArcGIS has automatically put
that in for us, so that's great,
it's got the right one.
If yours isn't saying WGS 1984,
the way to choose the correct
coordinate system is by clicking
on the icon to the right and
then in the search bar you can
type in what coordinate system
your data was collected in so we
can type in WGS 1984.
This is going to narrow down the
searches and then make sure
you're looking in geographic
coordinate system, under world
and the top one we can see is
WGS 1984.
So we can click on that, click
OK and now we can run our tool.
So hit run and once that loads,
you should be able to see your
points of the sightings on your
map.
We've created a vector data
layer, we can see it in our
contents, the hippogriff
sightings from our table.
So all we need to do now is just
hit save.